index.md, before:

# Year 3 - Game Theory


## Course Chapters

1. Chapter 1: Introduction to game theory

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.docx)

2. Chapter 2: Normal Form Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.docx)

3. Chapter 3: Dominance

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.docx)

4. Chapter 4: Best responses

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.docx)

5. Chapter 5: Nash equilibria in pure strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.docx)

6. Chapter 6: Nash equilibria in mixed strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.docx)

7. Chapter 7: Extensive form games and backwards induction

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.docx)

8. Chapter 8: Subgame Perfection

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.docx)

9. Chapter 9: Finitely Repeated Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.docx)

10. Chapter 10: Infinitely Repeated Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.docx)

11. Chapter 11: Population Games and Evolutionary stable strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.docx)

12. Chapter 12: Nash equilibrium and Evolutionary stable strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.docx)

13. Chapter 13: Random events and incomplete information

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.docx)

14. Chapter 14: Stochastic games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.docx)

15. Chapter 15: Cooperative game theory

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.docx)

16. Chapter 16: Cooperative games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.docx)

17. Chapter 17: Routing Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.docx)

18. Chapter 18: Connection between optimal and Nash flows

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.docx)

## Lesson plans
1. Lecture 1: [ Introduction](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_01.md)
2. Lecture 2: [ Normal Form Games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_02.md)
3. Lecture 3: [ Dominance](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_03.md)
4. Lecture 4: [ Best response](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_04.md)
5. Lecture 5: [ Nash equilibria in pure equilibria](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_05.md)
6. Lecture 6: [ Mixed strategy Nash Equilibria](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_06.md)
7. Lecture 7: [ Extensive form games and backwards induction](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_07.md)
8. Lecture 8: [ Subgame Perfection](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_08.md)
9. Lecture 9: [ Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_09.md)
10. Lecture 10: [ Finitely repeated games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_10.md)
11. Lecture 11: [ Infinitely repeated games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_11.md)
12. Lecture 12: [ Population Games and Evolutionary stable strategies](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_12.md)
13. Lecture 13: [ Nash equilibrium and Evolutionary stable strategies](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_13.md)
14. Lecture 14: [ Random events and incomplete information](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_14.md)
15. Lecture 15: [ Stochastic Games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_15.md)
16. Lecture 16: [ Matching games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_16.md)
17. Lecture 17: [ Cooperative games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_17.md)
18. Lecture 18: [ Routing games 1](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_18.md)
19. Lecture 19: [ Routing games 2](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_19.md)
20. Lecture 20: [ Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament (revisited)](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_20.md)
21. Lecture 21: [ Slack](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_21.md)
22. Lecture 22: [ Slack](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_22.md)

Commit message:

Added disclaimer at beginning of website

index.md, after:

# Year 3 - Game Theory
This website is very much work in progress with content for the 3rd game theory course I'm teaching at Cardiff University.


## Course Chapters

1. Chapter 1: Introduction to game theory

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_01-Introduction.docx)

2. Chapter 2: Normal Form Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_02-Normal_Form_Games.docx)

3. Chapter 3: Dominance

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_03-Dominance.docx)

4. Chapter 4: Best responses

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_04-Best_Responses.docx)

5. Chapter 5: Nash equilibria in pure strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_05-Nash_Equilibria_in_pure_strategies.docx)

6. Chapter 6: Nash equilibria in mixed strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_06-Nash_Equilibria_in_mixed_strategies.docx)

7. Chapter 7: Extensive form games and backwards induction

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_07-Extensive_form_games_and_backwards_induction.docx)

8. Chapter 8: Subgame Perfection

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_08-Subgame_Perfection.docx)

9. Chapter 9: Finitely Repeated Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_09_Finitely_Repeated_Games.docx)

10. Chapter 10: Infinitely Repeated Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_10_Infinetely_Repeated_Games.docx)

11. Chapter 11: Population Games and Evolutionary stable strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_11_Population_Games_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.docx)

12. Chapter 12: Nash equilibrium and Evolutionary stable strategies

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_12_Nash_equilibrium_and_Evolutionary_stable_strategies.docx)

13. Chapter 13: Random events and incomplete information

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_13_Random_events_and_incomplete_information.docx)

14. Chapter 14: Stochastic games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_14_Stochastic_games.docx)

15. Chapter 15: Cooperative game theory

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_15_Matching_games.docx)

16. Chapter 16: Cooperative games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_16_Cooperative_games.docx)

17. Chapter 17: Routing Games

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_17_Routing_games.docx)

18. Chapter 18: Connection between optimal and Nash flows

	[pdf(recommended)](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.pdf), [html](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.html), [docx](./Course_Notes/Chapter_18_Connection_between_optimal_and_nash_flows.docx)

## Lesson plans
1. Lecture 1: [ Introduction](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_01.md)
2. Lecture 2: [ Normal Form Games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_02.md)
3. Lecture 3: [ Dominance](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_03.md)
4. Lecture 4: [ Best response](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_04.md)
5. Lecture 5: [ Nash equilibria in pure equilibria](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_05.md)
6. Lecture 6: [ Mixed strategy Nash Equilibria](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_06.md)
7. Lecture 7: [ Extensive form games and backwards induction](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_07.md)
8. Lecture 8: [ Subgame Perfection](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_08.md)
9. Lecture 9: [ Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_09.md)
10. Lecture 10: [ Finitely repeated games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_10.md)
11. Lecture 11: [ Infinitely repeated games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_11.md)
12. Lecture 12: [ Population Games and Evolutionary stable strategies](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_12.md)
13. Lecture 13: [ Nash equilibrium and Evolutionary stable strategies](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_13.md)
14. Lecture 14: [ Random events and incomplete information](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_14.md)
15. Lecture 15: [ Stochastic Games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_15.md)
16. Lecture 16: [ Matching games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_16.md)
17. Lecture 17: [ Cooperative games](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_17.md)
18. Lecture 18: [ Routing games 1](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_18.md)
19. Lecture 19: [ Routing games 2](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_19.md)
20. Lecture 20: [ Prisoner's Dilemma Tournament (revisited)](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_20.md)
21. Lecture 21: [ Slack](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_21.md)
22. Lecture 22: [ Slack](./Lesson_Plans/Lesson_22.md)
