---
layout     : post
categories : homework
title      : Past Exam 2013 - 2014
comments   : false
slug       : 2013-2014-exam
---

[The 2013-2014 exam can be found here]({{site.baseurl}}/Exam/2013-2014.pdf)

1.  This question covers basic aspects of Normal form games which have
    been covered many times in class. Whilst the solutions might make it
    appear to be a long question I would consider it to be the easiest
    of the Game Theoretic questions with routine concepts.

    1.  Bookwork;

    2.  This question should be relatively straightforward asking the
        students to identify best responses to pure strategies;

    3.  This question asks students to plot the utilities, it requires
        the knowledge of mixed strategies with an ability to plot a
        line;

    4.  Repetition of previous question;

    5.  This questions requires a bit of work asking the students to
        consider the plots drawn previously to obtain best responses to
        the mixed strategies;

    6.  This uses the previous question to obtain all three Nash
        equilibria;

    7.  Above used best responses, now I am asking the students to state
        and prove a theorem (the proof is 4 lines of algebra and is
        bookwork). After stating the theorem the students are expected
        to apply it to the above problem.

2.  This question considers infinitely repeated games and culminates in
    one of the harder proofs of the course. A further aspect that
    students might find ‘tricky’ is that in this question I am
    considering players aiming to minimise utility as opposed to the
    usual course convention which is to maximise utility (the difference
    has been pointed out to students). In particular I think that this
    will ensure that students must have a good understanding of the
    theorem to be able to prove a slightly modified version of it.

    1.  This is routine: requires students to know the formula for a
        geometric sum;

    2.  As above;

    3.  This is slightly tricky but is again akin to examples seen in
        class;

    4.  Bookwork;

    5.  Routine question but with a twist as players are aiming to
        minimise their utility (so the definition of individually
        rational payoffs is slightly different);

    6.  Bookwork but again with a twist. This will ensure that students
        have a sound understanding of the process.

3.  This question is a mix of bookwork, routine examples and careful
    consideration of an example not seen before.

    1.  Bookwork;

    2.  Bookwork and a worked example, I am expecting students to use
        the Path definition for a Nash flow;

    3.  Bookwork and a worked example, I am expecting students to use
        the objective function definition for an optimal flow;

    4.  Bookwork (students are not asked to prove the theorem);

    5.  Students must obtain the previous Nash flow through minimisation
        of a two variable function;

    6.  Bookwork (again students are not asked to prove the theorem);

    7.  Students must obtain the Nash flow using the theorem (this
        requires very little work);

    8.  This is a slightly trickier question: students are asked to
        justify assumptions (in particular steady state assumptions).
        Furthermore they need to choose an approach to the problem.
        Using the marginal cost theorem as shown in the solution is the
        most elegant approach although it uses the solution to a quartic
        (a numeric solution is given as a hint).

    9.  This is a slightly trickier question: students are asked to
        justify assumptions (in particular steady state assumptions)
        relating a game theoretic model to a queueing model.

    10. Here students need to choose an approach to the problem. Using
        the marginal cost theorem as shown in the solution is the most
        elegant approach although it uses the solution to a quartic (a
        numeric solution is given as a hint).

[Solution available]({{site.baseurl}}/Exam/solution-2013-2014.pdf)
