---
layout     : post
categories : homework
title      : Past Exam 2014 - 2015
comments   : false
slug       : 2014-2015-exam
---

[The 2014-2015 exam can be found here]({{site.baseurl}}/Exam/2014-2015.pdf)

1.  This question covers basic aspects of Normal form games which have
    been covered many times in class. Whilst the solutions might make it
    appear to be a long question I would consider it to be the easiest
    of the Game Theoretic questions with routine concepts.

    1.  Bookwork;
    2.  This question should be relatively straightforward asking the
        students to identify best responses to pure strategies;
    3.  This question asks students to plot the utilities, it requires
        the knowledge of mixed strategies with an ability to plot a
        line;
    4.  Repetition of previous question;
    5.  This question asks students to state and prove a theorem (the
        proof is 4 lines of algebra and is bookwork). After stating the
        theorem the students are expected to apply it to the above
        problem (this is equivalent to solving two linear equations).
    6.  This questions asks student to think a bit, but the question
        does link to a previously seen homework question. If students
        recognize what the question is asking for, this only requires a
        very simple plot.

2.  This question considers evolutionary games and culminates in one of
    the more complicated algebraic processes. This is actually a routine
    process in this part of the course and one that students would have
    done multiple times (homework sheets etc).

    1.  Bookwork.
    2.  Bookwork and a basic application (simple linear equality).
    3.  Bookwork.
    4.  Bookwork.
    5.  This requires some heavy algebra but follows a routine process
        in this specific aspect of game theory.
    6.  A tiny interpretation of the results.

2.  This question is a mix of bookwork and application of basic
    formulae.

    1.  Bookwork.
    2.  Bookwork.
    3.  Two worked example, if students have revised this portion of the
        course, this should be very straightforward.
    4.  Bookwork from homework sheets (if students attempted the
        homework and/or looked at solution this should be
        straightforward).
    5.  Bookwork from homework sheets (if students attempted the
        homework and/or looked at solution this should be
        straightforward), this second proof is more involved than the
        previous one.

[Solution available]({{site.baseurl}}/Exam/solution-2014-2015.pdf)
