Lesson_Plans/Lesson_07.md, before:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 7
## Mixed strategy Nash Equilibria

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Define mixed strategy Nash equilibria;
- Obtain Nash equilibria in pure strategy.

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- Invite students to watch [this video](http://youtu.be/poYucyX7-gE).
- Invite students to play random 1 shot games online.

#### During the lecture

- 0:5 mins

    - VK: Recap
    - Students: Listen

- 5:10 mins

    - VK: Recap of expected utility calculation
    - Students: Listen

- 10:20 mins

    - VK: Recap results from online game and discussion with students about indifference
    - Students: Listen

- 20:30 mins

    - VK: Obtaining NE using best responses.
    - Students: Listen

- 30:45 mins

    - VK: Proof of equality of utilities theorem
    - Students: listen.

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students will be given reading and some practice exercises as well as a document about connection between linear programming and zero sum games (possibly create video?).

### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to define NE, prove the equality of payoffs theorem and compute NE using theorem and best responses.

Commit message:

Remove example lectures from list

Lesson_Plans/Lesson_07.md, after:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 8
## Extensive form games and backwards induction

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Describe properties of a game tree;
- Make connections between normal form games and extensive form games;
- Describe sequential rationality and backward induction;
- Use the above to identify equilibrium.

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- Invite students to play some online games (with variable amounts)

#### During the lecture

- 0:5 mins

    - VK: Recap
    - Students: Listen

- 5:20 mins

    - VK: Lecture on extensive form games
    - Students: Listen

- 20:25 mins

    - VK: Discussion about solving these games.
    - Students: Listen

- 25:40 mins

    - VK: Lecture on backward induction
    - Students: Listen

- 40:45 mins

    - VK: Solving some examples
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students given homework sheet 2 (obtaining normal form game equilibria).

### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to solve and represent a series of games.
