Lesson_Plans/Lesson_13.md, before:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 13
## Infinitely repeated games

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Calculate payoffs in infinetly repeated games;
- Analyse equilibrium behaviour in infinitely repeated games;
- Identify subgame equilibria in infinitely repeared games;

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- NA?
- Video about infinetely repeated games?

#### During the lecture

- 0:5 mins

    - VK: Recap
    - Students: Listen

- 5:10 mins

    - VK: Discussion about effects of inifintely repeating games.
    - Students: Participate.

- 10:20 mins

    - VK: Lecture on calculating payoffs in infinitely repeated games.
    - Students: Listen

- 20:35 mins

    - VK: Lecture on equilibrium behaviour and subgame equilibrium in infinitely repeated games
    - Students: Listen 

- 35:45 mins

    - VK: Lecture on applications of infinitely repeated games.
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students will be given reading and some practice exercises.
### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to write analyse behaviour in infinitely repeated games.

Commit message:

Remove example lectures from list

Lesson_Plans/Lesson_13.md, after:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 13
## Evolutionary game theory 2

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be able to:

- Describe the connection between Nash Equilibria and ESS;
- Obtain ESS and solve games against the field.

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- Online set of games? Quiz??

#### During the lecture

- 0:5 mins

    - VK: Recap.
    - Students: Listen.

- 5:15 mins

    - VK: Discuss results from quiz about connection between ESS and NE.
    - Students: Participate.

- 15:30 mins

    - VK: Lecture on connection between ESS and NE.
    - Students: Listen (recieve chocolat)

- 30:35 mins

    - VK: Group activity about playing against the field.
    - Students: Participate

- 35:45 mins

    - VK: Lecture on playing against the field.
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students given homework sheet 4 (Finite and infinitely repeated games)
### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to write out extensive form game representations of games and interpret such representations.
