Lesson_Plans/Lesson_01.md, before:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 1
## Extensive Form Games

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Represent a game in normal form;
- Represent lack of information withing a normal form game;

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- NA

#### During the lecture

- 0:20 mins

    - VK: Introduction (what is game theory and 2/3rds of average game.)
    - Students: Listen

- 20:30 mins

    - VK: Lecture on Normal Form representations
    - Students: Listen

- 30:35 mins

    - VK: Solution to 2/3rds of average game
    - Students: Listen (recieve chocolat)

- 35:40 mins

    - VK: Whole class activity (what about lack of information?)
    - Students to try and figure out how to deal with lack of information.

- 40:45 mins

    - VK: Lecture on lack of information.
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to write out extensive form game representations of games and interpret such representations.

Commit message:

Added after class section in lesson plan

Lesson_Plans/Lesson_01.md, after:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 1
## Extensive Form Games

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Represent a game in normal form;
- Represent lack of information withing a normal form game;

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- NA

#### During the lecture

- 0:20 mins

    - VK: Introduction (what is game theory and 2/3rds of average game.)
    - Students: Listen

- 20:30 mins

    - VK: Lecture on Normal Form representations
    - Students: Listen

- 30:35 mins

    - VK: Solution to 2/3rds of average game
    - Students: Listen (recieve chocolat)

- 35:40 mins

    - VK: Whole class activity (what about lack of information?)
    - Students to try and figure out how to deal with lack of information.

- 40:45 mins

    - VK: Lecture on lack of information.
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students will be given reading and some practice exercises.
### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to write out extensive form game representations of games and interpret such representations.
