Lesson_Plans/Lesson_19.md, before:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 1
## Bayesian Games

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be able to:

- Define a Bayesian game;
- Be familiar with concept of Bernoulli payoff function;
- Obtain Nash equilibria in Bayesian games;

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- NA

#### During the lecture

- 0:20 mins

    - VK: Introduction (what is game theory and 2/3rds of average game.)
    - Students: Listen

- 20:30 mins

    - VK: Lecture on Normal Form representations
    - Students: Listen

- 30:35 mins

    - VK: Solution to 2/3rds of average game
    - Students: Listen (recieve chocolat)

- 35:40 mins

    - VK: Whole class activity (what about lack of information?)
    - Students to try and figure out how to deal with lack of information.

- 40:45 mins

    - VK: Lecture on lack of information.
    - Students: Listen

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students will be given reading and some practice exercises.
### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to write out extensive form game representations of games and interpret such representations.

Commit message:

Remove example lectures from list

Lesson_Plans/Lesson_19.md, after:

# OR 3: Lesson Plan Lecture 10
## Finitely repeated games

### Aims of lecture

At the end of this lecture students will be to:

- Describe infinetely repeated games
- Obtain equilibria of repeated games

### Timeline

#### Before the lecture

- Students will have read the results from the prisoners dilemma tournament

#### During the lecture

- 0:5 mins

    - VK: Recap
    - Students: Listen

- 20:30 mins

    - VK: Lecture on Repeated games
    - Students: Listen

- 30:35 mins

    - VK: Discussion about types of tournaments and Axelrod's tournament
    - Students: Listen

- 35:40 mins

    - VK: Lectures showing examples of finitely repeated games
    - Students: Listen

- 40:45 mins

    - VK: Discuss effect of infinite repetition
    - Students: Participate

- 45:50 mins

    - VK: Conclusions

#### After the lecture

Students given homework sheet 3 (More normal form equilibria, backward induction, subgame equilibria).

### Assessment

Assessment of the content covered in this lecture will be through examination questions asking student to analyse repeated games as well as discuss Axelrod's work.
