# OR 3: Chapter 11 - Population Games and Evolutionary stable strategies

## Recap

In the [previous chapter](Chapter_11_Infinitely_Repeated_Games.pdf):

- We considered infinitely repeated games using a discount rate;
- We proved a powerful result stating that for a high enough discount rate player would cooperate.

In this chapter we'll start looking at a fascinating area of game theory.

## Population Games

In this chapter (and the next) we will be looking at an area of game theory that looks at the evolution of strategic behaviour in a population.

### Definition of a population vector

---

Considering an infinite population of individuals each of which represents a strategy from $\Delta S$, we define the population profile as a vector $\chi\in[0,1]^{|S|}_\mathbb{R}$. Note that:

$$\sum_{s\in S}\chi(s)=1$$

---

It is important to note that $\chi$ does not necessarily correspond to any strategy adopted by particular any individual.

### Example

Consider a population with $S=\{s_1,s_2\}$. If we assume that every individual plays $\sigma=(.25,.75)$ then $\chi=\sigma$. However if we assume that .25 of the population play $\sigma_1=(1,0)$ and .75 play $\sigma_2=(0,1)$ then $\chi=\sigma$.

In evolutionary game theory we must consider the _utility_ of a particular strategy when played in a particular population profile denoted by $u(s,\chi)$ for $s\in S$.

Thus the utility to a player playing $\sigma\in\Delta S$ in a population $\chi$:

$$u(s,\chi)=\sum_{s\in S}\sigma(s)u(s,\chi)$$

The interpretation of the above is that **these payoffs represent the number of descendants that each type of individual has.**

### Example

If we consider a population of N individuals in which $S=\{s_1,s_2\}$. Assume that .5 of the population use each strategy so that $\chi=(.5,.5)$ and assume that for the current population profile we have:

$$u(s_1,\chi)=3\text{ and }u(s_2,\chi)=7$$

In the next generation we will have $3N/2$ individuals using $s_1$ and $5N/2$ using $s_2$ so that the strategy profile of the next generation will be $(.3,.7)$.

We are going to work towards understanding the evolutionary dynamics of given populations. If we consider $\chi^*$ to be the startegy profile where all members of the population play $\sigma^*$ then a population will be evolutionary stable only if:

$$\sigma^*\in\text{argmax}_{\sigma\in\Delta S}u(\sigma,\chi)$$

Ie at equilibrium $\sigma^*$ must be a best response to the population profile it generates.

### Theorem for necessity of stability

---

In a population game, consider $\sigma^*\in\Delta S$ and the population profile $\chi$ generated by $\sigma^*$. If the population is stable then:

$$u(s,\chi)=u(\sigma,\chi)\text{ for all }s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)$$

---

(Recall that $\mathcal{S}(s)$ denotes the support of $s$.)

### Proof

---

If $|\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)|=1$ then the proof is trivial.

We assume that $|\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)|>1$. Let us assume that the theorem is not true so that there exists $\bar s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)$ such that:

$$u(\sigma^*,\chi)\ne u(\bar s,\chi)$$

Without loss of generality let us assume that:

$$\bar s=\text{argmax}_{s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)}u(s,\chi)$$

Thus we have:

$$\begin{aligned}
u_{i}(\sigma^*,\chi)&=\sum_{s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)}\sigma^*(s)u(s,\chi)\\
&\leq\sum_{s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)}\sigma^*(s)u(\bar s,\chi) \\
&\leq u(\bar s,\chi)\sum_{s\in\mathcal{S}(\sigma^*)}\sigma^*(s) \\
&\leq u(\bar s,\chi)
\end{aligned}$$

Which gives:

$$u(\sigma^*,\chi)< u(\bar s,\chi)$$

which implies that the population is not stable.

---

## Evolutionary Stable Strategies

### Definition of an evolutionary stable strategy

---

Consider a population where all individuals initially play $\sigma^*$. If we assume that a small proportion $\epsilon$ start playing $\sigma$. The new population is called the **post entry population** and will be denoted by $\chi_{\epsilon}$.

---

### Example

Consider a population with $S=\{s_1,s_2\}$ and initial population profile $\chi=(1/2,1/2)$. If we assume that $\sigma=(1/3,2/3)$ is introduced in to the population then:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\chi_{\epsilon}&=(1-\epsilon)(1/2,1/2)+\epsilon\sigma\\
            &=(1/2-\epsilon/3,1/2+2\epsilon/3)
\end{aligned}
$$

### Definition

---

A strategy $\sigma^*\in\Delta S$ is called an **Evolutionary Stable Strategy** if there exists an $0<\bar\epsilon<1$ such that for every $0<\epsilon<\bar \epsilon$ and every $\sigma\ne \sigma^*$:

$$u(\sigma^*,\chi)>u(\sigma,\chi)$$

---

Before we go any further we must consider two types of population games:

1. Games against the field. In this setting we assume that no individual has a specific adversary but has a utility that depends on what the rest of the individuals are doing.
2. Pairwise contest games. In this setting we assume that every individual is continiously assigned to _play_ against another individual.

The differences between these two types of population games will hopefully become clear.

## Games against the field

We will now consider an example of a game against the field. The main difficulty with these games is that the utility $u(s,\chi)$ is not generally linear in $\chi$.

Let us consider the Male to Female ratio in a population, and make the following assumptions:

1. The proportion of Males in the population is $\alpha$ and the proportion of females is $1-\alpha$;
2. Each female has a single mate and has $K$ offspring;
3. Males have on average $(1-\alpha)/\alpha$ mates;
4. Females are solely responsible for the sex of the offspring.

We assume that $S=\{M,F\}$ so that females can either only produce Males or only produce Females. Thus, a general mixed strategy $\sigma=(\omega,1-\omega)$ produces a population with a proportion of  $\omega$ males. Furthermore we can write $\chi=(\alpha,1-\alpha)$.

The females are the decision makers so that we consider them as the individuals in our population. The immediate offspring of the females $n$ is constant and so cannot be used as a utility. We use the second generation offspring:

$$
\begin{aligned}
u(M,\chi)&=K^2\frac{1-\alpha}{\alpha}\\
u(F,\chi)&=K^2
\end{aligned}
$$

Thus:

$$u(\sigma,\chi)=K^2\left(\omega\frac{(1-\alpha)}{\alpha}+(1-\omega)\right)$$

Let us try and find an ESS for this game:

1. If $\alpha\ne 1/2$ then $u(M,\chi)\ne u(F,\chi)$ so that any mixed strategy $\sigma$ with support $\{M,F\}$ would not give a stable population.
2. Thus we need to check if $\sigma^*=(1/2,1/2)$ is an ESS (this is the only candidate).

We consider some mutation $\sigma=(p,1-p)$:

$$\chi_{\epsilon}=(1-\epsilon)\sigma^*+\epsilon\sigma$$

which implies:

$$\alpha{\epsilon}=(1-\epsilon)1/2+p\epsilon=1/2+\epsilon(p-1/2)$$

We have:

$$u(\sigma^*,\chi_{\epsilon})=1/2+\frac{1-\alpha_{\epsilon}}{2\alpha_{\epsilon}}$$

and:

$$u(\sigma,\chi_{\epsilon})=(1-p)+p\frac{1-\alpha_{\epsilon}}{\alpha_{\epsilon}}$$

The difference:

$$
\begin{aligned}
u(\sigma^*,\chi_{\epsilon})-u(\sigma,\chi_{\epsilon})&=p-1/2+(1/2-p)\frac{1-\alpha_{\epsilon}}{\alpha_{\epsilon}}\\
&=(1/2-p)\frac{1-2\alpha_{\epsilon}}{\alpha_{\epsilon}}
\end{aligned}
$$

We note that if $p<1/2$ then $\alpha_{\epsilon}<2$ which implies that $u(\sigma^*,\chi_{\epsilon})-u(\sigma,\chi_{\epsilon})>0$. Similarly if $p>1/2$ then $\alpha_{\epsilon}<2$ which implies that $u(\sigma^*,\chi_{\epsilon})-u(\sigma,\chi_{\epsilon})>0$. Thus $\sigma^*=(1/2,1/2)$ is a ESS.
