Course_Notes/Lecture_1-Introduction.md, before:

# OR 3: Lecture 1
## Introduction

### What is game theory?

- Paragraph about general ideas.
- 2/3rds of average game.

Game theory can be described briefly as the study of interactive decision making. 

#### Coffee house example
Let us consider the very simple situation where **you** decide where to meet your **friends**. You have some information about their behaviour:

- 20% of the time they go to coffee house A;
- 80% of the time they go to coffee house B.

If you wanted to maximise your chance of meeting your friends: what should you do?

![A simple decision tree](images/L01-img01.png)

The above tree shows that if **you** were to choose your location first it would be in your interest of choosing coffee house B. This gives you an 80% chance of being in the same location as your **friends**.

In general these sorts of decisions are not at the mercy of chance. **You** would probably choose to go to coffee house A or B and simply let your friends know where you are so that they could make an informed decision. This consecutive making of decisions is a type of game.

![A simple decision tree](images/L01-img02.png)

In this game the outcome (whetheer or not your friends and you have a coffee together) depends on the actions of all the players. 

#### 2/3rds of the average game

Let us consider another type of game.

### Extensive Form Games

#### Description
#### Lack of Information

Commit message:

Celine and Bob example pic done

Course_Notes/Lecture_1-Introduction.md, after:

# OR 3: Lecture 1
## Introduction

### What is game theory?

- Paragraph about general ideas.
- 2/3rds of average game.

Game theory can be described briefly as the study of interactive decision making.

#### Coffee house example
Let us consider the very simple situation where **you** decide where to meet your **friends**. You have some information about their behaviour:

- 20% of the time they go to coffee house A;
- 80% of the time they go to coffee house B.

If you wanted to maximise your chance of meeting your friends: what should you do?

![A simple decision tree](images/L01-img01.png)

The above tree shows that if **you** were to choose your location first it would be in your interest of choosing coffee house B. This gives you an 80% chance of being in the same location as your **friends**.

In general these sorts of decisions are not at the mercy of chance. **You** would probably choose to go to coffee house A or B and simply let your friends know where you are so that they could make an informed decision. This consecutive making of decisions is a type of game.

![A simple decision tree](images/L01-img02.png)

In this game the outcome (whether or not your friends and you have a coffee together) depends on the actions of all the players.

#### 2/3rds of the average game

Let us consider another type of game:

1. Every player must write a whole number between 0 and 100 on the provided sheet.

2. The winner of the game will be the player whose number is closest to 2/3rd of the average of all the numbers written by all the players.

### Extensive Form Games

#### Description

We will now return to the tree diagrams drawn previously. In game theory trees are used to represent a type of game called: **extensive form games**.

**Definition**

An $n$ player extensive form game **of complete information** consists of:

1. A finite set of $n$ players;
2. A rooted tree (which we refer to as the _game tree_);
3. Each leaf of the tree has an $n$-tuple of payoffs;

**Example**

Let's consider the following game.

> Two friends must decide what movie to watch at the cinema. Bob would like to watch a comedy and Celine would like to watch a sports movie. Importantly they would both rather spend their evening together then apart.

Represents the game as well as the utilities of Bob and Celine.

![Bob and Celine](images/L01-img03.png)

#### Lack of Information
